
<div class="row">
### Pre-Shared Key Extension
</div>
<div class="row">
<div class="col1">
The "pre_shared_key" extension is used to indicate the identity of the
pre-shared key to be used with a given handshake in association
with PSK key establishment.

The "extension_data" field of this extension contains a
"PreSharedKeyExtension" value:


%%% Key Exchange Messages

       struct {
           opaque identity<1..2^16-1>;
           uint32 obfuscated_ticket_age;
       } PskIdentity;

       opaque PskBinderEntry<32..255>;

       struct {
           select (Handshake.msg_type) {
               case client_hello:
                   PskIdentity identities<7..2^16-1>;
                   PskBinderEntry binders<33..2^16-1>;

               case server_hello:
                   uint16 selected_identity;
           };

       } PreSharedKeyExtension;
`---snip---`

<!--
identity
: A label for a key. For instance, a ticket defined
  in {{ticket-establishment}}, or a label for a pre-shared key
  established externally.

obfuscated_ticket_age
: For each ticket, the time since the client learned about the server
  configuration that it is using, in milliseconds.  This value is
  added modulo 2^32 to with the "ticket_age_add" value that was
  included with the ticket, see {{NewSessionTicket}}.  This addition
  prevents passive observers from correlating sessions unless tickets
  are reused.  Note: because ticket lifetimes are restricted to a
  week, 32 bits is enough to represent any plausible age, even in
  milliseconds. For identities established externally an obfuscated_ticket_age of
  0 SHOULD be used, and servers MUST ignore the value.

identities
: A list of the identities that the client is willing
  to negotiate with the server. If sent alongside the "early_data"
  extension (see {{early-data-indication}}), the first identity is the
  one used for 0-RTT data.

binders
: A series of HMAC values, one for
  each PSK offered in the "pre_shared_keys" extension and in the same
  order, computed as described below.

selected_identity
: The server's chosen identity expressed as a (0-based) index into
  the identities in the client's list.
{: br}
Each PSK is associated with a single Hash algorithm. For PSKs established

via the ticket mechanism ({{NewSessionTicket}}), this is the Hash used for
the KDF. For externally established PSKs, the Hash algorithm MUST be set when the
PSK is established.
-->

Prior to accepting PSK key establishment, the server MUST validate the
corresponding binder value (see {{psk-binder}} below). If this value is
not present or does not validate, the server MUST abort the handshake.
Servers SHOULD NOT attempt to validate multiple binders; rather they
SHOULD select a single PSK and validate solely the binder that
corresponds to that PSK. In order to accept PSK key establishment, the
server sends a "pre_shared_key" extension indicating the selected
identity.

Clients MUST verify that the server's selected_identity is within the
range supplied by the client, that the server selected a cipher suite
indicating a Hash associated with the PSK and that a server
"key_share" extension is present if required by the
ClientHello "psk_key_exchange_modes". If these values are not
consistent
the client MUST abort the handshake with an "illegal_parameter" alert.

If the server supplies an "early_data" extension, the client MUST
verify that the server's selected_identity is 0. If any
other value is returned, the client MUST abort the handshake
with an "illegal_parameter" alert.

This extension MUST be the last extension in the ClientHello (this
facilitates implementation as described below). Servers MUST check
that it is the last extension and otherwise fail the handshake with an
"illegal_parameter" alert.

#### Ticket Age

The client's view of the age of a ticket is the time since the receipt
of the NewSessionTicket message. Clients MUST NOT attempt to use
tickets which have ages greater than the "ticket_lifetime" value which
was provided with the ticket. The "obfuscated_ticket_age" field of
each PskIdentity contains an obfuscated version of the ticket age
formed by taking the age in milliseconds and adding the "ticket_age_add"
value that was included with the ticket, see {{NSTMessage}} modulo 2^32.
This addition prevents passive observers from correlating connections
unless tickets are reused. Note that the "ticket_lifetime" field in
the NewSessionTicket message is in seconds but the "obfuscated_ticket_age"
is in milliseconds. Because ticket lifetimes are
restricted to a week, 32 bits is enough to represent any plausible
age, even in milliseconds.

</div>
<div class="col2">
We model a simplified version of the pre-shared key extension. Instead of offering
a list of identities and binders, the client will only ever send a single one:
```
  define(<!PreSharedKeyExtensionCH!>, <!Extension('41', identities, <binder>)!>)
  define(<!PreSharedKeyExtensionSH!>, <!Extension('41', '0')!>)
```

The identities are supplied in the `out_of_band_psk` and `new_session_ticket` rules, 
and are simply fresh values `~psk_id` generated at the time.

For `obfuscated_ticket_age`, we created a pair of functions `mask` such that
`unmask(mask(x, y), x) = y` and similarly `unmask(mask(x, y), y) = x`. This
effectively works like the XOR function and allows us to mask ticket ages.

Since an adversary can easily observe the time between two (hypothetically)
connected session, we assume the ticket age is known: `$ticket_age`.
Hence the `obfuscated_ticket_age` value is set to `mask($ticket_age, ~ticket_age_add)`.

We do not currently attempt to model either correlation of sessions, or replay
protection. Clearly if the client makes two resumed connections, the adversary
can correlate sessions by observing `mask($ticket_age.1, ~ticket_age_add)` and
`mask($ticket_age.2, ~ticket_age_add)`. Moreover, we can assume that the server
knows precisely the time elapsed, and therefore can verify that `$ticket_age` is
correct, thereby preventing (to some measure) replay attacks.

However, to show that the adversary *cannot* correlate session otherwise might
require using the indifferentiability framework in Tamarin which we do not
currently use.
</div>
</div>

<div class="row">
<div class="col1">

#### PSK Binder


The PSK binder value forms a binding between a PSK and the current
handshake, as well as between the handshake in which the PSK was
generated (if via a NewSessionTicket message) and the handshake where
it was used.  Each entry in the binders list is computed as an HMAC
over a transcript hash (see {{the-transcript-hash}}) containing a partial ClientHello
up to and including the PreSharedKeyExtension.identities field. That
is, it includes all of the ClientHello but not the binders list
itself. The length fields for the message (including the overall
length, the length of the extensions block, and the length of the
"pre_shared_key" extension) are all set as if binders of the correct
lengths were present.

The PskBinderEntry is computed in the same way as the Finished
message ({{finished}}) but with the BaseKey being the binder_key
derived via the key schedule from the corresponding PSK which
is being offered (see {{key-schedule}}).

If the handshake includes a HelloRetryRequest, the initial ClientHello
and HelloRetryRequest are included in the transcript along with the
new ClientHello.  For instance, if the client sends ClientHello1, its
binder will be computed over:

       Transcript-Hash(ClientHello1[truncated])

If the server responds with HelloRetryRequest, and the client then sends
ClientHello2, its binder will be computed over:

       Transcript-Hash(ClientHello1,
                       HelloRetryRequest,
                       ClientHello2[truncated])

The full ClientHello1 is included in all other handshake hash computations.
Note that in the first flight, ClientHello1[truncated] is hashed directly,
but in the second flight, ClientHello1 is hashed and then reinjected as a
"handshake_hash" message, as described in {{the-transcript-hash}}.


</div>
<div class="col2">
The binder values are computed over the entire ClientHello message using the following
trick:
```
  binder = '0'
  // messages is expanded as the ClientHello message with binder set to '0'
  messages = ClientHello
  // The binder_key is computed over the messages, using the EarlySecret
  binder = binder_key()
  // messages is now recalculated using the most recent value for binder
  messages = ClientHello
```
(recall ClientHello is a macro which expands out to the message contents).

In the case of a HelloRetryRequest, a similar trick is used, but we need
to store the previous messages in a temporary variable:
```
    messages = <messages, HelloRetryRequest>
    tmp_messages = messages
    binder = '0'
    messages = <messages, ClientHello>
    binder = binder_key()
    messages = <tmp_messages, ClientHello>
```
</div>
</div>
